docs: Adding NodeClaims concept page to docs (#6470)
aws/karpenter-provider-aws: website/content/en/preview/concepts/nodeclaims.md

---
title: "NodeClaims"
linkTitle: "NodeClaims"
weight: 30
description: >
  Understand NodeClaims
---

> Karpenter uses NodeClaims to perform node autoscaling based on the requests of unschedulable pods and the

Reviewer: I would frame it as "Karpenter uses NodeClaims to manage the lifecycle of Kubernetes Nodes with the underlying cloud provider. Karpenter's algorithm creates and deletes NodeClaims in response to the demands of the Pods in the cluster.

Reviewer: e.g., you could theorically create a standalone NodeClaim, separate from any autoscaler. Or build a "replica based" approach similar to MNG using NodeClaims.

Author: Done.

requirements of existing [NodePool]({{<ref "./nodepools" >}}) and associated [NodeClasses]({{<ref "./nodeclasses" >}}).
While NodeClaims require no direct user input, as a Karpenter user you can monitor NodeClaims to keep track of
the status of your nodes in cases where something goes wrong or a node drifts from its intended state.

> Karpenter uses NodeClaims as a merged representation of the cloud provider instance and the node on the cluster.

Reviewer: I see it as "NodeClaim is the request for capacity" and "Node is the running representation of the capacity". I don't see them as merged. NodeClaims cause Nodes as a side effect of launching the instance.

Author: Done.

      Example of log messages at this stage:
      ```
      {"level":"INFO","time":"2024-06-22T02:24:52.642Z","logger":"controller","message":
         "initialized nodeclaim","commit":"490ef94","controller":
         "nodeclaim.lifecycle","controllerGroup":"karpenter.sh","controllerKind":
         "NodeClaim","NodeClaim":{"name":"default-sfpsl"},"namespace":
         "","name":"default-sfpsl","reconcileID":
         "7e7a671d-887f-428d-bd79-ddf603290f0a",
         "provider-id":"aws:///us-west-2b/i-08a3bf1cadb205c7e",
         "Node":{"name":"ip-192-168-170-220.us-west-2.compute.internal"},
         "allocatable":{"cpu":"7910m","ephemeral-storage":"18242267924",
         "hugepages-2Mi":"0","memory":"14320468Ki","pods":"58"}}
      ```
7. Making sure that the Node is ready to use. This includes such things as seeing if resources are registered and start-up taints are removed.
8. Checking the nodes for liveliness.

At this point, the node is considered ready to go.

If a node doesn’t appear as registered after 15 minutes since it was first created, the NodeClaim is deleted.
Karpenter assumes there is a problem that isn’t going to be fixed.

> No pods will be deployed there. After the node is deleted, Karpenter will try to create a new NodeClaim.

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning that Karpenter will assume that a NodeClaim will register before 15 minutes, and will not launch additional capacity while it waits for this. NodeClaims, when booting up, are included in the scheduling simulation for both launch and termination flows.

Author: Done.

## NodeClaim drift and disruption

> Although NodeClaims play a role in replacing nodes that drift or have been disrupted,

Reviewer: NodeClaims are immutable. They `cannot` be modified.

Author: Done.

linkTitle: "NodeClaims"
weight: 30
description: >
  Understand NodeClaims
---

Karpenter uses NodeClaims to manage the lifecycle of Kubernetes Nodes with the underlying cloud provider.
Karpenter's algorithm creates and deletes NodeClaims in response to the demands of the Pods in the cluster.
NodeClaims are created from the requirements of existing [NodePool]({{<ref "./nodepools" >}}) and associated
[NodeClasses]({{<ref "./nodeclasses" >}}).
While NodeClaims require no direct user input, as a Karpenter user you can monitor NodeClaims to keep track of
the status of your nodes in cases where something goes wrong or a node drifts from its intended state.

Karpenter uses NodeClaims to request capacity and provide a running representation of that capacity.
Karpenter creates NodeClaims in response to provisioning and disruption needs (pre-spin). Whenever Karpenter
creates a NodeClaim, it asks the cloud provider to create the instance (launch), register the created node
with the node claim (registration), and wait for the node and its resources to be ready (initialization).

This page describes how NodeClaims relate to other components of Karpenter and the related cloud provider.

> If you want to learn more about the nodes being managed by Karpenter, depending on what you are interested in,

Reviewer 2: It might be worth adding an example of a NodeClaims, just like we do for the nodepool and nodeclass

      and an allocatable status, indicating that the instance is ready.
    * Checking to see if the node has been synced, adding a finalizer to the node (this provides the same
      termination guarantees that all Karpenter nodes have), passing in labels, and updating the node owner references.
      Example of log messages at this stage:
      ```
      {"level":"INFO","time":"2024-06-22T02:24:52.642Z","logger":"controller","message":
         "initialized nodeclaim","commit":"490ef94","controller":
         "nodeclaim.lifecycle","controllerGroup":"karpenter.sh","controllerKind":
         "NodeClaim","NodeClaim":{"name":"default-sfpsl"},"namespace":
         "","name":"default-sfpsl","reconcileID":
         "7e7a671d-887f-428d-bd79-ddf603290f0a",
         "provider-id":"aws:///us-west-2b/i-08a3bf1cadb205c7e",
         "Node":{"name":"ip-192-168-170-220.us-west-2.compute.internal"},
         "allocatable":{"cpu":"7910m","ephemeral-storage":"18242267924",
         "hugepages-2Mi":"0","memory":"14320468Ki","pods":"58"}}
      ```
7. Making sure that the Node is ready to use. This includes such things as seeing if resources are registered and start-up taints are removed.

> 8. Checking the nodes for liveliness.

Reviewer 3: This isn't really a single step, but happens periodically for the node's lifetime. I'm not sure it really fits here.

At this point, the node is considered ready to go.

> Karpenter assumes that a NodeClaim will register within 15 minutes of being requested.
> Karpenter will not launch additional capacity while waiting for this.
> As they are booting up, NodeClaims are included in the scheduling simulation for both launch and termination flows.
> 
> If a node doesn’t appear as registered after 15 minutes, the NodeClaim is deleted.
> Karpenter assumes there is a problem that isn’t going to be fixed.
> No pods will be deployed there. After the node is deleted, Karpenter will try to create a new NodeClaim.

Reviewer 3: Wording suggestion to be more precise. I'm also wondering if we should move this into the previous steps, probably in the details around registration. It feels a little disjoint here.
```suggestion
Once a NodeClaim has launched (i.e. the cloud provider created an instance), the instance has 15 minutes to register with the cluster. 
During that time, Karpenter will consider the NodeClaim to be schedulable capacity for it's scheduling simulation.
This ensures Karpenter doesn't launch additional instances for the same set of pending pods while waiting for registration.
If the instance has not registered within 15 minutes, both the instance and NodeClaim are deleted. 
Subsequent scheduling simulations will create new NodeClaim(s) to replace those deleted due to the registration timeout.
```

## NodeClaim drift and disruption

Although NodeClaims play a role in replacing nodes that drift or have been disrupted,
to a Karpenter user, NodeClaims are immutable and cannot be modified.
NodeClaims should only be a tool for monitoring.

> For details on Karpenter disruption, see [Disruption]({{< ref "./disruption" >}}).

Reviewer 3: What is the purpose of this section at the moment? It doesn't seem like it includes any real details about drift and disruption so I question if we should include it at all. If we wanted to include details on drift we could talk about how the NodeClaim is immutable, and when the state of the NodeClaim is no longer compatible with the desired state from the NodePool / NodeClass we mark the NodeClaim as drifted. I'm not sure we need to go into that detail here though, and would probably be better suited to the disruption docs (if we document it at all and don't just treat it as an implementation detail).

       {"cpu":"5150m","pods":"8"},"instance-types":"c3.2xlarge, c4.2xlarge, c4.4xlarge,
       c5.2xlarge, c5.4xlarge and 55 other(s)"}
    ```
4. Finds the new NodeClaim and translates it into an API call to create a cloud provider instance, logging
   the response of the API call. 

   If the API response is an unrecoverable error, such as an Insufficient Capacity, Karpenter will delete the NodeClaim, mark that instance type as temporarily unavailable, and create another NodeClaim if necessary.
   Example log:
    ```
    {"level":"INFO","time":"2024-06-22T02:24:19.028Z","logger":"controller","message":"launched nodeclaim","commit":"490ef94","controller":"nodeclaim.lifecycle",
       "controllerGroup":"karpenter.sh","controllerKind":"NodeClaim","NodeClaim":
       {"name":"default-sfpsl"},"namespace":"","name":"default-sfpsl","reconcileID":
       "9c9dbc80-3f0f-43ab-b01d-faac6c29e979","provider-id":
       "aws:///us-west-2b/i-01234567adb205c7e","instance-type":"c3.2xlarge","zone":
       "us-west-2b","capacity-type":"spot","allocatable":{"cpu":"7910m",
       "ephemeral-storage":"17Gi","memory":"13215Mi","pods":"58"}}
    ```

> 5. Karpenter watches for the instance to register itself with the cluster as a node, and updates the node's 

Reviewer 3: Do we want to still mention that it sets up the owner ref and finalizer, or leave that as an implementation detail?

Reviewer 4: I'lll add it in

    "NodeClaim":{"name":"default-xmbww"},"namespace":"","name":"default-xmbww","reconcileID":"1f1a350b-6b3a-4927-9632-074ee4a095da","provider-id":"aws:///us-west-2c/i-01234567adb205c7e","Node":{"name":"ip-xxx-xxx-xx-xxx.us-west-1.compute.internal"}}
   ```
6. Karpenter continues to watch the node, waiting until the node becomes ready, has all its startup taints removed, 
   and has all requested resources registered on the node. 
   Example log:
    ```
    {"level":"INFO","time":"2024-06-22T02:24:52.642Z","logger":"controller","message":
        "initialized nodeclaim","commit":"490ef94","controller":
        "nodeclaim.lifecycle","controllerGroup":"karpenter.sh","controllerKind":
        "NodeClaim","NodeClaim":{"name":"default-sfpsl"},"namespace":
        "","name":"default-sfpsl","reconcileID":
        "7e7a671d-887f-428d-bd79-ddf603290f0a",
        "provider-id":"aws:///us-west-2b/i-01234567adb205c7e",
        "Node":{"name":"ip-xxx-xxx-xx-xxx.us-west-1.compute.internal"},
        "allocatable":{"cpu":"7910m","ephemeral-storage":"18242267924",
        "hugepages-2Mi":"0","memory":"14320468Ki","pods":"58"}}
    ```

> As they are booting up, NodeClaims are included in the scheduling simulation for both launch and termination flows.

Reviewer 3: Should we add some detail on what the implication of this is for the end user, or maybe just drop this detail? The important thing here is that Karpenter won't launch multiple instances for the same set of pods, but I don't think anyone would expect that it would.

Reviewer 4: I can drop it. I don't think they need to know

default-m6pzn   c7i-flex.2xlarge   us-west-1a   ip-xxx-xxx-xx-xxx.us-west-1.compute.internal   True    7m50s

kubectl describe nodeclaim default-m6pzn
```
Starting at the bottom of this example, here are some highlights of what the NodeClaim contains:

* The Node Name (ip-xxx-xxx-xx-xxx.us-west-1.compute.internal) and Provider ID (aws:///us-west-1a/i-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx) identify the instance that is fulfilling this NodeClaim.
* Image ID (ami-0ccbbed159cce4e37) represents the operating system image running on the node.
* Status shows the resources that are available on the node (CPU, memory, and so on) as well as the conditions associated with the node. The conditions show the status of the node, including whether the node is launched, registered, and healthy. This is particularly useful if Pods are not deploying to the node and you want to determine the cause.
* The Spec sections show the values of different NodeClaim objects. For example, you can see the type of operating system running (linux), the instance type and category, the NodePool that was used for the NodeClaim, the node's architecture (amd64), and resources such as CPU and number of Pods currently running on the node.

> * Metadata show information about how the NodeClaim was created.

Reviewer 3: We can probably drop this line, it's the standard metadata in any kubernetes resource. If we want to keep it, we should probably go into a little more detail (e.g. the finalizer and owner ref to the NodePool).
